# Java EE and Java Web Development

## What is a Java Web Application?

A Java web application generates interactive web pages containing various types of markup<br />
language (HTML, XML, and so on) and dynamic content. It is typically comprised of web<br />
components such as JavaServer Pages (JSP), servlets and JavaBeans to modify and<br />
temporarily store data, interact with databases and web services, and render content in<br />
response to client requests.

Because many of the tasks involved in web application development can be repetitive or<br />
require a surplus of boilerplate code, web frameworks can be applied to alleviate the<br />
overhead associated with common activities. For example, many frameworks, such as<br />
JavaServer Faces, provide libraries for templating pages and session management, and often<br />
promote code reuse.

### What is Java EE?

Java EE (Enterprise Edition) is a widely used _specification_ containing a set of coordinated<br />
technologies that significantly reduce the cost and complexity of developing, deploying, and<br />
managing multi-tier, server-centric applications. Java EE builds upon the Java SE platform and<br />
provides a set of APIs (application programming interfaces) for developing and running<br />
portable, robust, scalable, reliable and secure server-side applications.

Some of the fundamental components of Java EE include:

- Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB): a managed, server-side component architecture used to<br />
encapsulate the business logic of an application. EJB technology enables rapid and<br />
simplified development of distributed, transactional, secure and portable applications<br />
based on Java technology.

- Java Persistence API (JPA): a framework that allows developers to manage data using<br />
object-relational mapping (ORM) in applications built on the Java Platform.
